Q. Have you been a part of any community before? Mention what inspires you to run a community and how GDSC would impact your community?

My primary motivation to lead a GDSC at my University IIT Goa is to receive and provide proper guidance in technical domains, using the resources and programs offered through GDSC. A GDSC offers an inclusive environment for students passionate about technology and provides well-structured opportunities to new students. I want to encourage an environment where everyone can share and gain knowledge, learn through the experiences of others, ask questions, and explore various technologies. I firmly believe that even personal growth is connected to the support, inclusion and sharing of knowledge we experience in communities. I was the Google Cloud Facilitator in October 2021. Being a part of that beautiful community has opened my eyes to new technologies and highly talented peers that I might not have discovered otherwise. It has provided me with healthy competition and constant motivation. When I have felt lost and lacking a proper roadmap and resources to learn something new, I have reached out and received help from someone experienced in that particular field. I am also a core member of GDSC IIT Goa, and it has provided me with a platform and opportunity to impart the knowledge I have through workshops and sessions that I have previously led. Moreover, being a part of communities helps form a solid professional network and develop interpersonal skills. It provides relevant industry experience and professional growth opportunities through collaboration. In a community, everyone gets a fair chance to voice their own opinions and contribute towards making a positive change. That is how all perspectives of a real-world problem become prominent and can be taken care of using the best possible solution. Overall, a community provides motivation, guidance, knowledge and opportunities to brainstorm, and most of all, it assists in overall development. I want to fulfil my vision of creating such a community as a GDSC Lead.
asf
  

Q. Tell us about your experience as a team leader. What was challenging for you, how did you solve problems, what is the best part of being a leader?

The most important part of leading a team is having persistence. I have experienced times when the whole team is exhausted because the results are not as expected, and at times like these, someone needs to take the initiative. I have found myself taking the lead and influencing my team to persevere in such situations. I led my team for the project Pathfinding Visualisation in my 1st year. At one point, we were stuck, and my team members had left all hope, wanting to shift to another more straightforward project. Even though I didn't exactly know how to make it work, I knew that we were a reliable team to get through this tough patch. I persuaded them to believe in their skills, and we did ultimately get through. I realized that feeling in the team was the key factor, without which the project would've never been completed. I realized that a good team was one where all team members could count on others. I have also led a team in our college's tech fest to organize an event on Linux CLI + Bash scripting and did several unofficial sessions on guiding Juniors in the field of Data Science. I am also currently the secretary of IIT Goa's Gym Society and have motivated many people achieve thier fitness goals. The crux of leadership that I have realized is that a leader isn't someone who has power over the team's decisions. It's someone who makes sure that the decision taken is the best possible scenario, takes the initiative and always persuades the team not to give up. The best part of being a leader for me is to offer constant moral support and watch everyone in the group overcome their limits and succeed past what they thought was possible. 






Q. Mention other technologies you have been dealing with.

Lately, the technology that I've found the most interesting is Data Science + Machine Learning. I find it interesting because it solves a wide variety of problems that are the hour's need. Moreover, it is an ever-growing domain of technology. There isn't a possibility for it to stagnate anytime soon. It's something that requires brainstorming along with studying. It also opens gates to futuristic solutions for problems that seem impossible to tackle. Some of the Machine Learning projects that I have made are - Advanced Housing prices predictions (Learnt ML Project Lifecycle), IRIS Dataset flower classification (Learnt deploying on streamlet), Salary Prediction(Learnt Data Scraping from Glassdoor deployed on Vercel), Precipitation prediction using Random Forest Regression (Learnt different ML algorithms to find the best accuracy, F1 Score). Data science-related tasks were - Analysis of All Seaborn plots (other use cases), Learning stock market and working with Financial data (using yahoo finance, finance) to create Dashboards, analyzing the Air Quality Index in India, Geographical data Analysis (using Geopandas, geopy), AutoEDA Tools. Getting data isn't always easy, so did multiple Web Scraping projects (using Selenium, Beautiful soup). Why spend 2 minutes when you can automate tasks? Paid a lot of time on Selenium made Linkedin Bots, Instagram scrapper bot, Discord Bot. Did Pathfinding Visualisation Project in 1st year (Comparison of different algorithms), Took part in DS+ML hackathons of other college's Technical fest. Tried hands-on OpenCV and automated the Game (Kick ya Chop) .Other Side Technologies that I've worked with are Android Development using Kotlin during Android Study Jams, using which I've developed a few mini-applications. I am into Competitive Programming as well, which improves my problem-solving skills and helps me practice DSA concepts for the coding interviews at the same time. 
